well-known as a writer of some of our keen nonfiction, first essay, and recently a book on, of all things, libraries.
Baker, a self-suppressed lover of books and of libraries, paradoxically began writing enduring enmity of many libraries when he wrote about the destruction of car catalogs in the New Yorker in 1994.
His latest passion is for the preservation of original prints, particularly newspapers, a goal he has supported personally by founding the American newspaper repository.
Baker's newest book, Double Full, Librarians and the Assault on Paper, was published in April.
On my near right is Professor Richard Cox, who hails from the University of Pittsburgh School of Information Sciences.
Dr. Cox, a highly respected voice among archivists, has written extensively on professional issues in archives and records management.
He has countered Baker's arguments vigorously.
Originally in First Monday, a peer-reviewed internet journal,
And most recently, in a preliminary review of Baker's books for the Society of American Archivists, entitled Don't Fold Up.
Cox offers a professional archivist's perspective on the complex issues that surround the preservation of the past.
Of course, an event like today could never happen without the hard work.
I would like to thank my fellow Alumni Day Committee members, Linda Watkins, Susan Lieberthal,
and Toby Pearl.
The committee would also like to thank giftless professor Jeanette Bastion and student David Weaver, who suggested this morning the speakers.
In addition, the alumni office and Dean Matarazzo's office have provided much assistance and guidance.
Finally, our thanks to our two speakers, who have graciously agreed to air their disagreements in public here today.
Mr. Baker will begin, followed by Dr. Cox.
After their more formal remarks, the speakers will take questions from the audience.
At that point, listeners in the overflow room are invited to come into this room in order to ask their questions if they'd like.
Dean Matarato has graciously agreed to provide a little Q&A period.
Over to you, gentlemen.
Well, thank you.
Good morning, everybody.
I'm honored to be here at Simmons.
And I'd like first to say a second thank you to David Weaver, who, as a student in Jeannette Bastion's archives class, read the New York article that I've written about the fate of old newspapers and
asked me last year if I needed some help.
And my wife and I had, at that time, 60 pallets of old newspapers, many more tons, mostly bound, bought directly or indirectly from the British Library after I tried, unsuccessfully, to move into the library to leave them.
And we're sitting in a brick textile mill in Rollinsford, New Hampshire.
Please raise your hand if you can hear me.
And they've been packed by the library in more or less random order.
of the titles we bought were the last remaining intact long runs in any library if we had bought them on behalf of a non-profit that i formed they would be cut up and sold piecemeal by a dealer who was in the birthday newspaper and historical headline business so yes we needed help david weaver got a simmons internship approved despite the fact that i am not a professional librarian or a professional archivist
And he broke up on weekends, and he and I began unwrapping pallets and sorting through hundreds of volumes.
We got two shelves up.
He did some inventories, and he gave the whole enterprise a massive forward boost.
Now, with the further help of a few dozen volunteers, the question is mostly sorted and can be used by appointment by people who want to see what these published urban landmarks of 50 or 100 or 120 years ago actually looked like.
So thank you, David.
Thank you, Simmons.
And if some of you want to help out with shelving or indexing over time, we'd be very grateful.
Richard Cox and I are here to talk about original formats in a virtual world.
But it's framed as the great paper debate.
And I feel that so as not to disappoint you all, we should both totter out wearing sumo wrestler diapers and go at it.
Richard zapping me with a handheld laser scanner while I
brandish a 1942 volume of the new york herald tribune there's clearly a feeling in some quarters that by criticizing in detail noble institutions such as the library of congress and famous washington library leaders such as berger clapp and patricia batten that i have wrongly demeaned the entire profession of librarianship i don't think that's true i believe on the contrary
that I'm protecting the integrity of the profession of librarianship from some very powerful people who led it astray.
The people I criticize were those who, in my opinion, used lots of federal money to push libraries into making terribly destructive mistakes, mistakes that we will never be able to recover from fully.
We must learn more about the evolution of these mistakes and the little euphemisms such as preservation and reformatting that shielded them from view so as not to repeat them.
I wrote the book not just because I'm upset by what's happened, which I certainly am, but because librarians who knew much more about the day-to-day realities of libraries than an outsider like me knows told me that they were upset about what's happened.
There are librarians who feel completely powerless in their institutions, who know that what is going on is wrong, but who haven't been able to communicate that wrong to anyone who can expose it or counteract it.
Just last week, I got a letter from some librarians at the Library of Congress.
I'd like to read you some of it.
These librarians write, some of us have had our professional careers abolished for standing up against the mass destruction of the nation's literary heritage.
By writing this letter, we will again be under fire and in danger of losing our jobs.
And top library managers do not tolerate dissent from the party line.
We have been told that the sixth floor
a nickname for library management, is upset by our contact with you.
We protest this siege mentality.
Writers of this letter call the Library of Congress's preservation program misguided.
The problems of storing books and newspapers are resolvable, they say.
The problems of politics and egos are another matter.
As I'm sure all of you here know, there's nothing monolithic about what librarians think
which is why I point out in the preface to my book that great libraries employ, and here I'm quoting, a great many book-respecting people who may not know of or approve of what their superiors or their forebears have done.
We need a national library that's willing to commit to the ordered storage of the things that people have actually published and read.
Whole cities once read the newspapers a hundred years ago.
No other sources of words
and imagery entered so many minds consistently every day.
50 years ago, the Library of Congress had 67,000 bound volumes of late 19th and 20th century newspapers from every big city in the country.
According to a man who did a collection well, these files were immaculate.
They couldn't wait to get rid of them, he told me.
Of this intergenerational bounty, only a few thousand volumes remained to be my profound.
The rest have already gone.
And much of the microfilm that replaced the original papers was bought and filed away sight unseen without even a spot check for quality.
One of the tragedies of newspaper industry is that the biggest and most important papers, the New York Times, the Herald Tribune, the Chicago Tribune, were microfilmed earliest and least well because they were the ones that were likely to sell to other libraries.
And then those libraries sold or dumped their originals.
Why do you need to keep the originals?
they're beautiful and interesting and old of course because the paper that they are made of is the very paper that went through the four and six color whole printing presses at the time and thus they are the best and thus they are best able to convey the complete testimony of the past and just as important because they serve as a source for
The New York Times Company and Bell and Howell have announced that they will be selling libraries a digital facsimile of the Times going back to 1851.
That's great.
But where do they turn to make their digital facsimiles?
The Times doesn't have a file of its own paper.
And the New York Public Library's run has large gaps, including a 10-year gap from 1915 to 1925.
So digitizers are turning to Bell and Howell's microfilm of the Times.
The electronic version will come not from the original, but from black and white film, and much of the richness of the line art and the road reviewer photography sections will be lost.
And no matter how good Bell & Howell's de-spackling software, that's what they call it, is, and no matter how high their scanning resolution is, they will once again be selling libraries, many of whom once owned the Times in the original, something that looks like mediocre microfilm.
The searchable text that comes from the scanned file is going to be a mess at times because the OCR software isn't going to have enough information to chew on.
My wish that libraries do a better job in keeping what people actually read and have read is independent of what may happen with electronic publishing.
Maybe in two years or two months, most people will be reading the New York Times and books exclusively as phosphors on the screen.
If so, keep screen images of the phosphors.
At the moment, though, most people read the Times as sheets of Raleigh paper covered with pictures and advertisements.
And yet no library right now is keeping the New York Times in paper, not one as far as I know.
Libraries subscribe to the Times and the microfilm of the Times, and then they talk about the paper after a brief holding period.
I'm not alone in being surprised and just paid attention.
Most people I've talked to are.
And like saying,
that libraries should be saving every single copy of every edition of every single paper in the country?
Of course not.
I'm saying that right now we're saving no current copies, zero, and clearly we can do better than this.
And I'm saying that once upon a time, libraries owned, just by happenstance, different editions of the same daily papers, because they've been sent different editions, which they found,
in their wisdom, and these textual differences, these differing headlines and pictures and articles were lost when they substituted the unvarying microfilm copy for what they had.
And I'm saying that the US newspaper program is still today paying libraries to film old originals and then allowing them to throw the papers out to free up space.
Does that mean that I insist that libraries must save everything?
At the turn of the last century,
Joseph Pulitzer published half a million or a million copies of the New York world every day.
Almost all of these copies are gone.
They're cut up, burned, destroyed, because that's the way life is.
Most of what we publish is lost.
But I do believe we need to keep a few original copies of what is that draw most influential paper in our history, just a few.
Not everything, but one 500,000
of everything.
A culture that is able to save locomotives and space capsules and wallpaper collections and gardens full of enormous rusting pieces of sculpture and the correspondence of untold numbers of minor historical figures and rare strains of disease germs can, I think, find a way to hold onto something as centrally important as this.
Of course, every library and archive and historical society worries about shelf space.
Librarians tussle over shelf space within their own institutions.
But compared with making digital copies or microfilm copies, space is cheap.
It would cost my little nonprofit tens of millions of dollars to create digital images of the millions of pages of newspapers it owns in color at a resolution that would allow researchers to read them comfortably.
On the other hand, it costs us $26,000 a year to rent the space to keep them safe.
As a country, we've really got to do a better job of weighing these relative costs.
Drive from Boston to New York and look at the warehouses.
There are hundreds of them.
Some of them have 50 truck bays.
What are they holding?
They're holding cheese products for truck parts or Happy Meal toys, for Pentium computers that will be scrapped in five years.
Some of them are police.
a few big room clean warehouses withhold everything that our national library has been sent free by publishers and has rejected every year our national library says that they don't have enough space and they are unwilling to leave space even though they're willing to budget 94 million dollars for digital questions just a little more about space last month i gave a talk at the ribbon cutting ceremony at the new storage facility from duke university library
It's a building like the Harvard Depository, where things are stored in random order, reached by a state-of-the-art cherry picker.
The building costs $7.5 million to build, and it will hold 2.5 million books.
So a brand-new, ultra-cool book building costs only $3 a book to build.
A tiny number of the books that are going into that building have been digitally scanned.
And here's the salient comparison.
To store a 19th-century book in this warehouse, it costs $3 a book.
plus an estimated 17 cents a book in maintenance and static.
To scan a 19th century book, it costs at least $100 a book.
If you want to scan it in color at high resolution, costs leap up from there.
And the physical book doesn't need periodic refreshing on new media.
It doesn't need platform migration.
It doesn't even need an electrical outlet.
Not that it's a bad thing to take digital pictures of books, as long as the picture taken doesn't require that the book be cut out of its binding and guillotined.
The electric versions can be extraordinarily useful.
I prefer that book collections were stored in traditional call number order, browsably, which costs a little more, say $10 a book.
But the point is that off-site storage, even traditional call number storage, is the cheapest thing it can possibly do
to maintain access to a collection.
And any scanning or microfilming that big research libraries embark on in the name of remote access should be, from now on, be done with the expectation that the original book go back on the shelf when the copying is done.
There's a lot of money for digitization right now.
If we set things up so that we tied 10% into a paper conservancy fund as we digitized to provide the safekeeping of the original afterward, we'd be just fine.
In fact, at the beginning of a scanned or OCR or microfilms document, it might be nice to read, no originals were harmed.
Research library collections grow.
Your children's feet grow, and you buy them new shoes.
The bigger feet do not represent a growth problem, but a developmental fact, something to be proud of.
For the past half century or more, though, growth has been an embarrassment to some Washington visionaries.
They were swept by a kind of Cold War fervor of informational reform, and they wanted all growth to stop.
Libraries would reach a certain fixed size, a few million volumes, and then the weeding parties would gather.
and the microcopying would crunch down the excess, and when the microfilm schools themselves took up too much room, and they could microcopy the microcopies at ultra-high resolution, and crunch things down more, and the stacks would function like a vast trash compactor, squeezing the words.
Because words were squeezable, weren't they?
They were disembodied astral presences that had nothing to do with the ink that formed them, or the paper that they were printed on, or the findings that held paper together.
They could be reformatted, preserved by being destroyed, because they were immaterial.
The books would still exist.
They would just not exist.
They would be there, but they wouldn't be there.
You could hold your head high and say you had the finest US newspaper collection in the world, but in fact, you got rid of 90% of it and replaced it with microphones.
What was the source of this thinking?
There was one especially influential person, some of you may have heard about, most of you may have heard about.
His name was Fremont Ryder.
head librarian at Weston.
Ryder's first book published in 1909 was about the amazing discoveries of spirit wrappings and table turnings and levitation.
He felt these things deserve serious study, and that the tables did, in fact, turn.
He wrote Pulp Fiction.
He was the managing editor of the Library Journal.
And when he went bankrupt in 1929, after a manic episode in which he spent a small fortune founding a supper club on Long Island,
He wrote an indignant pamphlet in which he said that people were fed up with being indebted to banks, and they wanted a new deal.
He sent the pamphlet to Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Roosevelt shot him back a letter with a handwritten note saying, you're right, keep it up.
And a few months later, Roosevelt, in his nomination speech, pledged himself to a new deal for the American people.
So Fremont Reiter was an influential person, and his new deal for librarians was this.
Make or buy micro copies of your book collection, sell off the book collection to dealers at scrap prices, and you will make, in his words, an actual cash profit on the substitution.
You'll enrich your library by getting rid of its books.
Lider got the Librarian of Congress, and the Deputy Librarian of Congress, and the Head Librarian at Michigan, and the Head Librarian at Harvard, and other big time leaders all over the library world to blurb his book and serve on his microcard committee.
It's a mathematical fact that book collections double every 16 years, Ryder said.
Turns out he was wrong about that.
And if we didn't start buying Fremont Ryder's microcard reading machines and selling off the collections, the stacks were going to overrun the entire square footage of New Jersey.
Building a storage warehouse was, according to Ryder, a confession of past failure.
It was unmanly.
This way of thinking continues in some libraries, and it was very powerful in the 1980s, when the Library of Congress had high votes for its optical disk pilot project, which could, according to the deputy librarian, squeeze down the library's three buildings to one.
But the optical disk pilot program didn't work out.
Nobody uses both big platters anymore.
And over the past decade or so, some enlightened library administrators have begun to accept the fact that the easiest way to keep a research collection
is to keep the research collection there's no shame in growth it's not a confession of failure putting up shelves sufficient to hold what's there is the crucially important primary task that research fibers must fulfill they must do this because no other institutions public or private can be dependent on to keep these things the obscure things the cumbersome things but even though they're used only once in 10 years
or 30 years, or 50 years, are valuable because they are what people published and said.
To a literature, the fact that something is little used is a positive attribute.
If a photo editor for a documentary on, say, Ellis Island pages through the Road of Revere section of a newspaper or a forgotten autobiography and finds a picture that has never been reproduced before, she is overjoyed because the picture is interesting and because it's unused.
We till around in great collections looking for things that have lain unnoticed.
The urge to search through obscurity is basic scholarship.
If the research libraries don't keep it, don't keep copies of the stuff that we as a culture publish, nobody else is going to do it.
It just won't happen.
We can't depend on businesses to save our past.
We just care about the present and they go out of business.
We understand why fragile old flags and old presidential letters are valuable as things.
We don't believe that taking a snapshot of Plymouth Rock amounts to a reformatting of Plymouth Rock.
And after some long and painful decades of urban renewal, we're doing better with old mills and train stations.
There are very nice postcards of Whistler's Woman in White in museum gift shops, but Whistler's Woman in White is still on the wall.
If libraries ask for storage money with the same intensity, they ask for digitizing or microfilming money.
If they budget it right into the grant proposals for digitization, the public will understand and oblige.
We really want you to keep this stuff.
Now, I want to talk for a last moment about conspiracies and personal negative.
In a well-written place,
previously mentioned, called Don't Fold Up.
Responding to Nicholson Baker's double fold, Richard Cox says several times that I present conspiracy theories in my book.
I just don't.
I do point out in the book that some of the great library leaders and theorists of the 50s and 60s worked for the CIA in the department of defense.
I never use the word conspiracy.
joseph becker a senior cia informationalist designed the library of the future exhibits at the seattle and the new york world fair herman fustler head of the university of chicago library had been the chief librarian of the manhattan project and he was a consultant to the economic energy commission bernard class the deputy librarian of congress and later the founder of the multi-influential library group the council on library resources
was a CIA liaison and consultant for decades with top secret clearance as were several of the other board members of the council on library resources.
Now when I first stumbled on this, and I was just trying to find out a little more about Werner Clappen,
since he was the most influential librarian at the time, I found it all quite fascinating.
And I think that there's a lot more work to be done by library historians in teasing out the way that the intelligence community has in certain areas hired librarians to help them with their enormous indexing and filing and classifying problems.
Obviously, the informational needs of the CIA and the DOD, swift but eyes only movement, instant retreatability, ease of record destruction,
are different from the informational needs of someone slowly accumulating research in a particular immigrant neighborhood in Boston in 1906.
And for a long time, I believe, intelligence requirements had an undue influence on decision-making at some libraries.
None of this amounts to a conspiracy, however.
Herman Klatt and Herman Fosterowitz were sincere information scientists of a certain stripe who strongly believed that you could reform libraries
and win the cold war finally about my personal conductive mostly i simply quote what people say to me or what they've written when i disagree with what they say i say so the subtitle of my book libraries and the assault on paper comes from a passage written by patricia batten in 1983 when she says that her university depended on
outside funding, this is a quote, and cooperative projects for an active assault on our large collection of brittle materials.
I do criticize acts, terrible acts, of needless destruction.
We were told that the large-scale federal brittle books program began at the National Endowment for the Humanities in the late 1980s, supplant microfilm, three million books over 20 years, pushed by Patricia Batten and others,
was a way of saving the human record.
But if you read the planning document on which the Brittle Books program was built, we learned that built into the plan was the idea that if one library microfilmed a book, then five libraries could discard their copies of the book, which would amount to a space savings of hundreds of millions of dollars.
The Brittle Books program was sold as a kind of emergency book rescue, but it was in fact predicated on book destruction.
It's time the public and librarians knew of this inversion of impact.
Libraries win or lose the public's trust based on their actions.
And the only way we can evaluate the trustworthiness of their actions is if we know what the actions are.
And yet it is today extremely difficult to find out what libraries like the Library of Congress choose to discard.
And so to close, I'd like to recommend that all research libraries that receive public money
be required to post lists of proposed discards on their websites.
There's a giant hole in the 20th century as a result of the casualties of micro-filming projects, but we have a chance to do it right this time around.
Offer the boom of networked pages without destroying the riches of local collections.
Thank you.
Does the slide show set up?
The slide projector?
Oh great.
I don't have a thing.
So when I want to switch the slide, do I just say next?
I want to show you just some slides of the
because um i think if i just sit here and say a note paper they're beautiful and they're precious and they shouldn't have been thrown out that's fine but if if i show you some pictures of what i'm talking about you'll be able to judge for yourself whether these things have informational value in their illustrations say that the microphone doesn't fully capture
This is what the New York world looks like in the era of rag paper before Joseph Pulitzer bought it.
It's only eight pages long because rag paper was extremely expensive.
There were periodic rag shortages.
and they had to jam everything onto these eight pages so they used a very tiny type but they didn't really have briefing on them Pulitzer and Hearst came to New York City and they transformed the way people read the news here's the same newspaper in 1898 after the installation of I think their second huge printing press
The most marvelous mechanical production of the age is what they call this printing press.
And they have an illustration here of the color pages going through it, being cut and folded, and then followed by eight pages of color fashion illustrations.
So this was really the key to the success of these pictures, was that they were offering a readership color that they hadn't seen before.
You could get a whole list in every Sunday for very, very cheap.
Pulitzer and Hearst were competing, and this is an illustration that's also in the book, to show the finest battle illustrations in 1898.
So here on its side, to take advantage of the full size of the page, is an illustration with a raking searchlight.
And then on the right, you can see the trajectory of a shell that leaves the battleship on the left, and it rises up over a column of type in the middle, and then lands on the shore on the right-hand side.
So they're really thinking about the way the paper looked as a graphic thing.
This muck wrecking, there's lots of muck wrecking in these turn-of-the-century papers obviously.
This is the problem sweatshops, the man sewing on the left, the sweatshop owner in the middle, selling to the rich woman on the right.
She's one of the 400.
And then this is the same thing on microfilm.
This is the New York Public Library's film, which is what everybody's film is, made in 1951.
And one of the problems is that you have to kind of reassemble it out of 8 1â„2 by 11 printouts.
And it's just not the same.
Here is a cartoon from 1898.
The cartoon pages are incredible.
The Persecution Mania, kind of pre-Freudian thing, with the Red Devil inside them on the left.
Divorced in one Dakota day, it says, and there's a man on the left, a woman on the right, and I've seen the vignettes of their divorce, their Dakota divorce going through.
These newspapers, like the world, have never been indexed.
One of the problems is that you can't find what's in here because
There's no way to find it.
So one of the things I'm hoping to do is to do a kind of modest pilot project indexing the magazine sections of some of the world.
Another cartoon.
This is the labor-saving dodges for the hot weather and the man up in the upper left is diving into an automatic undressing machine.
This is all pre-Ruth Goldberg but very Ruth Goldbergian.
On the left, lower left, is a
robotic lover who takes care of that while the man kind of lounges on the settee.
This is the same thing on microfilm.
You still see the robotic lover, you still see this undressing machine, but it just doesn't kind of leap out at you.
Microfilm is a high contrast medium, which means it wants to be either black or white, which in the case of a color illustration isn't ideal.
This just shows one of the things that the British Library was most scrupulous about.
They had to stamp every volume discarded by the British Library or BL canceled.
First they were stamping everything in black and some of the stamping was actually obscuring the text so I asked if they could at least use a different color so they resorted to green but then they stamped in this case right in the guy's head.
Boom.
And then another bear.
This is probably the last
remaining range of this without a copy of that illustration certainly many libraries.
From 1900 to 1930 there isn't any other library as far as I know but half of the New York world in the original.
The American Antiquarian Society has a run of the world through 1900s so fortunately between the American newspaper repositories run and the American Antiquarian Society run there is now
one complete run of Joseph Pulitzer's masterpiece.
This is the magazine section, which is a huge full-size print on the regular newsprint stock.
Every week there was some illustration.
This is the hazards of a newly electrified New York City.
All these pictures are from the first decade of the 20th century.
Lots of maps of New York underground always.
bridges, and they were just seizing with pride in this newly powerful city, and the newspapers stood for all that.
New York churches turned into dives, a boxing match in a church on the lower half.
New York's first airship station, I think probably its last.
They had to have airships.
There was just an obsession with airships, really.
An airship every Sunday.
The Gret airship.
And this is how the eclipse works.
Kind of a nice one from, I think, 1905 or something.
And how the Chinese treatment of the eclipse on the lower right.
And then the eclipse on microfilm.
There is no eclipse on microfilm.
There.
This is a digital photograph, by the way, I can say proudly.
Who gets your money?
And it's John D. Rockefeller, Morgan, and Ryan all sharpening their axes as the whole guy turns the wheel.
And then in the lower left corner, around the perimeter, there are all the products, like shoes and candles and railroads and everything.
Then Morgan, Rockefeller, and Ryan all conjointly control a wonderful
conspiracy theory there.
How far can New York climb into the sky?
And this is a composite illustration of New York's finest buildings, including the Pulitzer Building, which is second from the right, which was torn down in 1954, about the time that the New York Public Library was microfilming.
Yes, I know.
The Sunday Magazine shows the heroic rescue of our great firemen.
showing off the printing press.
And then there were lots of fashion pages.
This is a hat.
They had to have a hat in every issue as well.
And then on the right, Gibson Girl inserts, which are carefully bound in by the British Library.
And generally don't appear on the microfilm because they're easily stolen.
There are many things that don't appear on the microfilm.
Whole new sections don't.
Because each microfilm
set was unique in a way.
They all were missing things and they all had slightly different editions and so each one of them is sort of like a magical falter or something that has the variations that are interesting.
Inside these magazine sections are incredible things.
The dumbbell might be in the corset on the right.
During the New York world, in the first third of the 20th century, the world was really neat literary New York paper, and it published Robert Bensley and E.B.
White and Dorothy Parker's poem, Men Don't Make Passes at Girls Who Wear Glass, the first published in the world.
It was the New Yorker magazine before the New Yorker magazine existed, and yet there is really no run of this thing around, except this one, as far as I know.
He was a nice illustration of a liar.
Henry, on the lower left, was a staff writer and had a short story almost every week in the world.
On the upper left is Norbert Wiener, before Norbert Wiener became a famous cyberneticist and war scientist who protected nuclear weapons.
And here on the right is the adventures of a man who dressed up as an Italian tambourine girl and wrote about it.
On the left is the hazards of being a diver in the docks of New York City.
On the right here is a man named Leonard who was born without a nose and he wanted a nose very much and so two doctors said that they would give him a nose by sewing his finger to his face.
and allowing them to have it heal there, then they would agitate the finger.
Well, Mr. Leonard was okay with this for a while, and then he began to be driven crazy by this finger in his face all night and all night, and so he tore it away, and then he decided he would do it again.
So they sewed it back, and then he tore it away again, and sewed it back, and finally he
according to the reporter, left the hospital with the foundations of a new nose firmly attached to his face.
Sometimes the things that experts think are the right thing to do are not the right thing to do.
Lots of plans for the beauties of New York had to come.
and of beauties of New York that exist.
Of course, there are airships on top.
I'm sorry, I'm slow with these.
They hired German, French Italian illustrators in 1911 to come to New York and illustrate the strangeness of the city.
So here's some grotesque that a German illustrator noticed on a rooftop.
And here in 1927, a smaller magazine section, women raised chariots in the hippodrome, latest excavations.
There were many other runs, very rare and beautiful runs of immigrant newspapers, all published in the United States, that were part of this discarding program at the British Library, which had the finest more newspaper collection anywhere.
Irish World from the turn of the century.
All the guts were heard.
The New York Tribune also, just to show you that there are other papers in this thing, and Record Act, Microfilm of the Tribune, the Pale Blue is no longer there.
And the Road of Revere sections, which are pervasive in all the great newspapers really through the 40s.
I printed in much higher resolution on thicker stock.
And they're one of the real losses when you go to microfilm, because they just lose.
You see the sprocket markings, but you don't see the half pounds.
The New York Forward is another beautiful run.
Here's one from 1941.
It also has wrote a review section.
And it says, this is the world that the Jewish children of today have inherited.
The pictures of refugees.
I don't think the New York Forward itself has a run in this paper.
I don't know what happened there.
This is what they looked like when they unwrapped them on pallets.
More beauties, I think.
Greek paper.
And the Chicago Tribune also is an incredible thing.
The Statue of Liberty holding a fistful of dollars.
And their women's sections were in blue ink sometimes.
Dinosaurs, of course, gotta have those in 1933.
And King Carol with his paramours, 1933.
And Marilyn Monroe in 1950, an early picture of her.
And then, if you flip that over, gangs launch events at the Korean War.
this wonderful feeling that the newspapers offer of simultaneity.
Moon launched by Red, is how the Chicago's Daily Tribune, which was very conservative, describes Sputnik.
And here's how the New York World and some of the forward look now in Balmsford, New Hampshire, although they should never have left England.
And here's how, with David Weaver's help, sorted some of these runs into years.
Then each run is sort of like a whale.
It's huge.
But when you really add up the amount of space that a given run of a paper takes, it's tiny, I think.
I mean, it's just not that much.
I'm getting to the end now.
I'm sorry it's taking so long.
But here's the skyscraper is a modern tower of Babel.
And each one of these little vignettes repays study, 1898.
And this is from 1927 again.
What will we look like 2,000 years from now?
The man sits in a modern-looking place, deco, with three radio speakers.
Want to do it?
And looking out at these kind of minarets, Kremlin-esque minarets.
We'll just go to the next slide.
What will we look like 2,000 years from now?
Well, this is what we're going to look like 2,000 years from now, unless we do a better job of keeping the originals.
Thank you very much.
It's a long way for the lights to come back.
I just say I don't have any pretty pictures to show.
But it does remind me of a few weeks ago I was sitting in my study at home and I was preparing a talk for another conference and I was at one point making an allusion to the Nicholson Baker book and my PowerPoint slide that I put photographs of Nicholson Baker there so I went to the website.
He has a fan page.
I don't have a fan page.
I pulled a photograph off and I was putting it into this PowerPoint slide and my daughter comes into the room and she says, who is that?
the man I'm debating up in Boston.
And she says, sign me up for that.
That's what I want to do, go to a debate with two middle-aged, white-heared, married men.
I thought, well, that sort of set it off.
I should point out that today's her 16th birthday.
If you were present, she gets to come up to Boston tomorrow.
She doesn't have to experience any of this.
OK.
At one far distant point, the year 10 million of Kurt Vonnegut, Sirens, and Titan Museum and Archives are empty because they are crowning the living right off the earth.
And a million year period is summed up in a single sentence in the history books.
Guy Montag, a fireman in Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451, suffers a crisis when he discovers the content of the books he is burning
and flees to join with a group who memorizes books in order to protect them from the authority.
Long after a nuclear arc, a holocaust, a group of monks discover a sacred text, a shopping list, from pre-war years in a canicle for Lerowitz by Walter Miller.
In George Warwick's Orwell's 1984, Winston Smith contends with a society in which everyone is always monitored and all information controlled by the government.
Smith works in the government archives, altering records, and as he develops his own critical notions, purchases a book in order to start keeping admiring.
And this, of course, is an unlawful act in that society.
Now, these are all classic fictional accounts commenting on post-World War II society's concern with government control of information, the role of books and records in society, the nature of personal knowledge.
They are also good stories.
also replete with conspiracy, interesting characters, secret societies, humorous societies, and chilling similarities to present events.
Now we have another story revolving around misguided government policies, well-meaning but hapless characters like Fremont Ryder, humorous antidotes about simplistic procedures and tests,
And most of all, a vast conspiracy, and I just as an aside can't contend, you don't have to use the word conspiracy, convey a conspiracy, involving CIA operatives and those other powerful government agents, librarians.
However, in this case, the story is true, or at least we're told it's true.
And of course, I'm referring to the book, Double Poll, that we're talking about today.
Instead of television screens in every room repeatedly showing government propaganda films, we have the creation of a widely shown film, Slow Fires, as being part of incessant propaganda by librarians and preservation administrators who have deceived the public into believing that paper becomes brutal and turns to dust.
Now, perhaps some may have wondered whether Mr. Baker is playing with us, creating a work just like as you and I describing the supposed obsession with John Updike or real, I don't want to know, in which we must scratch our heads and wonder whether we should take Double Bold as fiction or nonfiction.
One reviewer of Double Bold called the book resolutely absorbing and indicated that it reads like a spy novel.
He is, of course, a witty and charming writer and a superb storyteller.
While for some librarians and archivists, at least, he may anger us, we need to channel this anger into rethinking some of our assumptions and most certainly our approaches to how we explain ourselves to the public.
Librarians and archivists, likewise, should use double-fold as an opportunity to explain themselves, especially as he, Mr. Baker, operates in influential public forums,
and most librarians and archivists do not have access to them.
Nicholson Baker is wrong, mostly, but you need to twist a bit, scratch around in your strongest opinions, and indulge in self-scrutiny to determine just why he is wrong.
The pictures are neat.
They're neat color photographs, but it's more than just about being neat stuff.
And however, and this is a big however, if the public buys Baker's depiction,
of libraries and archives, it will be more difficult to meet our mission, any mission, his or our, because it will be difficult to gather support for what we do.
Archivists and librarians obviously need to be careful about how self-reflective we become when reading and responding to double-fold.
As a result of the book, archives, historical manuscripts, rare books, and newspaper collections have become the subject of journalists, book reviewers,
and radio and talk show hosts around the country, and many librarians and archivists may have wondered whether they were the focus of a fictional essay like Orwell or Vonnegut or Miller or Bradbury.
Archivists and librarians are not just in the news, they are the news, thanks in part to his stature as a writer, his celebrity, and his access to publication outlets like the New Yorker.
Librarians and archivists are being discussed in publications like the New York Times,
Newsweek, the Christian Science Monitor, New York Review of Books, and the list goes on and grows every day.
A stack of reviews and interviews and other materials now are beginning to fill a catwalk in the drawer.
But something is amiss.
Librarians and archivists are being attacked in the very area they thought they had gained substantial public support for the preservation of our documentary heritage.
And they're not just being sniped in.
They are under major seats.
Perhaps one is just getting started.
We are the vandals in the stacks destroying those precious newspapers before the public gets access to them.
We are the slash and burn librarians.
We are massacring books in all print.
We are gas bibliobureaucrats, my favorite review.
These are all terms not for the book.
I have other of those terms to use.
These are terms for the reviews.
It's obvious that
Mr. Baker's book is striking at the heart something that many feel passionately about, the maintenance of artifacts.
But in this, we also discover that the public and Nicholson Baker fundamentally have a poor understanding of who and what we are.
We can, of course, accept this, he states in his preface, that he is a lover of libraries.
For a major literary figure that takes the time to write such a book,
possibly require less potential financial gain and distraction from other writing projects.
Cassidy has made a commitment to this challenge, that's on this challenge, because he's concerned about the fate of the books and newspapers he is writing about.
Now, I'm not actually, I should say on the other side, I'm not sure about the business of selling books.
I noticed that I went to Amazon, which runs the status of the sale brand.
I noticed that double-fold is number 577 in the sales rank, whereas my best book in the sales rank is at number 761,000.
So now we do not have a fan page on the web.
We seem to be getting slaughtered here in the zoo.
It's not that difficult to believe in his passion for his goals, since Double Bowl reveals that he is not just a fan of those who run libraries who make decisions about preservation and reformat.
Just as librarians long ago discovered that they can convince the public to love books and even libraries, but not necessarily understand the professionals who manage them,
So Mr. Baker has driven a wedge in between the objects, the books, and the places, libraries, where they are stored, and the people, librarians and preservation administrators, who administer them.
Perhaps I'm simply being naive.
The attention double-fold is received with its delicious tales of conspiracy and duplicity, but yet he really is into a new way to sell books, at least about libraries and art.
In my view, Nicholson Baker does not fully understand the objects of his affections.
at the heart of the whole world are assumptions about the mission of archivists and librarians.
Archivists and librarians have been debating their mission for a long time.
Librarians wrestling with the roles of their institutions and the information or knowledge of digital age, call it what you want, and archivists struggling with the symbolic or cultural aspects of their mission in relation to the value of records for purposes such as evidence and accountability.
Librarians and archivists need to shoulder the blame
for not explaining what they do and all those complexities to the public.
They have tended to adopt simplistic messages.
And some of this simplicity is evident in double quote, something both of us would not have worried about until Nicholson Baker started writing about librarians and archivists and their repositories.
The public has, in fact, many perceptions of librarians and archives, seeing them as repositories of interesting stuff,
documents for artifacts, all through the history, all through the memory and knowledge, or simply as one more source of entertainment.
Although in this later one, libraries especially, may be losing out to the super bookstores with their coffee shops, easy chairs, and other diversions.
Another weakness of double fault is the lack of distinction about types of libraries and the scope of other responsibilities and mandates.
made by Mr. Baker when considering the flight of the preservation of the book, the newspaper, and the artifacts housed in the library.
Archives are barely figured, really, in this book.
One does not sense that he understands the difference between archives and libraries, and in fairness, not many outside these disciplines that perceive the differences.
Certainly not how difficult it would be to scale up the preservation and access gauges posed by countless unique materials housed in archives
and the growing challenges of electronic record-keeping systems.
Indeed, one must acknowledge that he confuses things because when he focuses on libraries, he stresses their archival role.
Parting that library and primary task is to be paper-deeper.
This might be true for large libraries, like the Library of Congress, the New York Public Library,
and some major academic research libraries around the country, but they represent only a fraction of all the libraries in existence.
In the discussion about the book, he suggests that he is really only focused on major research libraries and the need for them to keep what they already have on the shelf, ignoring the fact that there are many kinds of research libraries and that many notable research collections are in smaller libraries and archival repositories.
And that these libraries serve many other and often competing functions, ranging from community literacy programs to community social centers.
For most libraries, the kind of issues that Mr. Baker discusses are out of scope for their daily operation.
And when he does mention access, an issue that most librarians are very concerned about, there's limited to the kind of scholarship carried out in the elite academic or major research libraries.
Libraries and archives have a much broader scope of concern than the very simple view of the world presented by Nicholson Baker.
Archivists are concerned with the constantly evolving notions of records and their supporting technologies, the impact of these technologies and the reliability of records.
Whether a society immersed in nostalgia and memory will remember to value archival records, whether records will be used,
in effective ways or even at all, and the ethical challenges of managing increasingly complex and sensitive records.
Librarians are concerned with how to provide access to a wide spectrum of users and information in a wide diversity of print, digital, and other resources.
Censorship, threats of free speech and access information, and a changing sensitivities to how information sources are seen and used.
And these are just broad categories of some of the contentious and complex issues we face.
Libraries and archives are not just about shelves and warehouses.
They are living and awkward endangered organizations.
Managing libraries and archives is difficult, with competing priorities and needs and too few funds to meet all the needs and to solve all the problems.
They need funds, staffs, space for organizing and cataloging, as well as storage.
but certainly enabling access and ensuring security and environmentally stable buildings.
There is little sense that there are differences between major research libraries and public libraries, or between archives and historical manuscripts and other repositories and print and documentary resources in double fold.
Or even that major research libraries have faced substantial challenges in keeping their programs afloat as they try to build and maintain
They're rare and specialized materials.
The notion of saving originals, as he argues, must be weighed against us in such matters.
The irony is that these originals are the care of all these kinds of repositions.
Now, I don't want the debate to degenerate until merely the matter of I am a professional and Eve is an amateur.
of professionalism as being somehow elitist and anti-democrat.
And there are tings of this throughout the Baker book.
And I must say, this sells books too.
And I do not want to raise the spectrum of wild issues being addressed in double quote.
Yet the essence of being an expert is in mastering a specialized body of knowledge, of using that knowledge for a public good.
While he argues that there is a breach of trust between the public and librarians and archivists,
Noble Paul makes his arguments without fully knowing what librarians and archivists do.
He does not understand the distinction between librarians and archivists.
He notes, for example, that a true archive must be able to tolerate years of relative inattention, neglecting the reflect of the fact that archives must be carefully monitored to ensure that mold, rodents, and other problems do not attack those precious paper documents
or that archives are dealing with electronic record-keeping systems requiring intervention at the point of their creation and design considerable monitoring and use thereafter.
And even more importantly, such a view fails in understanding that archives are repositories of evidence ensuring accountability and building and sustaining a societal memory.
In other words, archives become places of relative inattention
at the peril of the loss of essence of what makes community, government, and nations.
He also expresses no concern about such matters, perhaps because he has another cause for focus.
For the public, newspapers are old records, and old records must be what archivists are caring for behind their walls.
In this sense, libraries and archives are like museums.
Really?
In an interview, when asked about the role of the university research library, he stated,
that the job of the research library is to keep the stuff that people read.
And that's a very simple task.
Notice people use this as a simple task.
Yet the increasing scholarship when reading, those have difficulties to determine who has read what, even if something has been read at all.
If a research library only kept what people read, they would be very small places indeed.
Because most of what sits on the shelves are rarely involved in something else.
The shelves would be filled with multiple copies of popular novels, have two manuals, dummies and idiot guides, self-help publications, and other similar currently popular materials that might not be popular or even consulted in the future because they're designed, like our computers and other electronic devices, to have short lifespan.
So what is he going after in his crusade?
Archivists and librarians can't afford to be dismissive for condescending
of the paper process that has risen in their midst.
He already has his followers, all those people glued to the television set every week, watching Antiques Roadshow, receiving their vids on eBay.
He also has some supporters from within the library and archives communities who believe that paper is the most stable medium by which to maintain documents, information, evidence found in those sources.
There is certainly some truth in this kind of argument,
But this is very different, I believe, than the exaggerated case that he has built over the past few years.
Reading his book reminds me when I asked a friend about the movie on Ike and Tina Turner's lives and careers released a few years ago.
My friend reflected for a moment and summarized the movie, what's all got to do with it in case those of you want to go to the video store later,
Summarize the movie this way.
Ike was very, very bad, and Tina was very, very good.
Nixon Baker, librarian, except for those who agree with him, were very, very bad.
Although libraries were very, very good.
After reading Double Bold, one might also wonder, what's love got to do with it?
The so-called information age has done weird things to us regarding how we perceive information and its value.
Perhaps Stovofold is merely a product in this strange time, when we seem to be straddled between print and digital information, between an interest in the tactile pleasures of artifacts and the convenient but certainly sterile uses of information via keyboard and screen.
On the one hand, technologists keep dreaming up ways to preserve everything, some even seeing religious significance in their work.
The present, everything should be saved.
The information age has thrown librarians and archivists into a spin about what they need to be doing.
Librarians are asked to be information professionals.
Can librarians do this and also preserve all those original?
Archivists work under a mission to identify, preserve, and make available for use records of continuing value.
And this continuing value encompasses the maintenance of records for accountability, corporate social memory, and evidence.
all the benefit to protect citizens.
Can archivists only account of this by preserving original?
Maybe Nicholson Baker is really worried about something else, and it is a concern that certainly any author has said before.
Perhaps he is worried that in 50 or 100 years, his writing, his book, won't be on the shelves of libraries and books for it, or the memory banks of computers that might be supporting the walls of libraries and publishers.
I remember a conversation some time ago about the odd moments of Ray Cudswell's book, The Age of Spiritual Machines, as he wistfully wrote about immortality being in breach by an injection of our consciousness into the computer's hard drive.
A colleague, swallowing his mouth full of food, you can only have these discussions over lunch, kindly surmised that Cudswell, who he knew, was beginning to think about his own mortality.
Perhaps Nicholson Baker is worried that his writing will not outlast him very long, although he obviously has a better shot of it than I, suspectfully as he views libraries and archives being selective in what they preserve.
Indeed, I know some librarians and archivists who are already testing the durability of double-perm fold construction and lamenting that Random House printed the book on acid-free paper.
Why can't librarians and archivists preserve all this stuff and keep it in its original form?
Well, it seems they should be able to do this because librarians and archivists have been very, very busy, it seems.
Double Falls focuses on what is to be done in libraries and archives, although the emphasis is on libraries and books and newspapers.
Specifically, the use of microfilming in the subsequent volumes of newspapers and books are reformatting in order to preserve their content.
Microfilm has been a poor choice, resulting in poor copies and leading to the massive destruction of books and newspapers.
His colorful language suggests that these libraries and other institutions have produced a historical record compromising to speak.
A clean-out of the library, a strip-mined history,
Double Bowl is not a mere critique of the preservation methods of librarians.
Instead, it's books were conspiracy compliance.
Perhaps he is sincere in his convictions or simply frustrated with all that I spoke thoroughly about the preservation mandate, for maybe he knows the conspiracy sell better.
Would a book critiquing library and archives preservation minus the conspiracy be featured on the pages of the leading newspapers and book review albums?
Probably not.
His faith would be to exist as an internal document discussed and debated deep within the professional journals and conferences with a sales forecast measured in the hundreds.
He may have given us the opportunity and motivation, indeed the absolute necessity, to speak out in a much more public forum, not merely as advocates for a particular position, but as explainers of complex and difficult responsibilities faced by the librarian, archivists, and preservation administrators.
There are weaknesses in this book, and they may prove the weakness we get.
The most obvious is his effective against those he sees as responsible for the tobacco he insists that happens.
He repeatedly mentions the incessant library propaganda wasted on the public, clearly arguing that men lied, and just importantly tried to conceal the evidence of their misdeeds.
Those of us who have been interested in teaching and reaching the public about the necessity of preservation of books,
had probably viewed this preservation advocacy as major exemplary successes.
He argues that the architects of this preservation movement have been secretive, like weapons procurers in the Department of Defense.
And his constant references to the CIA, federal funding, and even some of those people who work in tobacco companies and other features of the preservation movement all seem rather
What is missed is, of course, that the entire foundation of the information science field and computer industry was built at this time under similar circumstances.
Are we participating in a conspiracy every time we use a Korean computer to write an essay, send an email message, or look for information on the web?
He's not a lunatic, and he uses computers, as does his publisher.
So he also, as part of the Korean conspiracy, hatched deep into a secret room
and the Pentagon.
And given that the post-World War II plans for that building was to turn it into a federal record center, I know that the tentacles of this conspiracy are long.
If this sounds silly, so does the connecting of the use of microfilm in libraries and archives to a breach of public trust in libraries and archives and presentations.
He levels serious charges.
Library administrators, according to him, have not been doing their job.
participating in a slow betrayal of an unknowing nation and destroying whatever trust the public should have had in them.
Most importantly, he goes after the Brittle-Wooks effort, berating both the notion of Brittle and the idea that books were going to turn into dust and the crisis produced by the problem.
Where is he at to predict an apocalypse of paper?
He may be way too creative a writer for his own good when he tries to figure out how and why these decisions were being made.
Perhaps his next book might be a diatribe against the entire advertising industry, because it seems that he's mostly upset that librarians pushed a program that has been reasonably successful in reformatted newspaper books and other traditional print resources that seemed endangered and that he sees some evidence from being somewhat exaggerated.
Ultimately, his anecdotal descriptions of books declare to be brittle
decade before that are still found to be existing and worse that turn up the accession mark and command hefty prices as collectibles really miss the point that not all books are worth saving.
That market prices, which are hardly rational, could play a minor role in the preservation effort and that libraries and archives have other priorities and limited funds, and limited support.
While the great collectors assembled collections that became major additions to research libraries and archives, much of what now passes for collecting is driven by a commodities approach with interest only in monetary value.
How many people buy a rare book and read it?
Probably as many as buy a rare wine and drink it.
These are often investments and as such they are hardly evidence of some breach of faith and a covenant between librarians and the public.
Now there are various flavors
in the concoction of double pull.
At times, one gets a sense of well-intentioned, but misguided decision-making operating within the library.
He mentions that librarians were involved in impetuously technophilic decisions and often operated within a full futuristic swing.
What librarians and what libraries?
Well, yes, we know that they replace card catalogs with online public access catalogs.
But despite his plea that civilization was ending with the loss of those printed, handwritten, and sometimes cataloged, those individuals seemed pleased to have enhanced access to libraries across the world.
These libraries bet too much on what microfilm would do for them and how well it would work.
More often, however, the librarians in double-fold come across as evil or as dupes or just plain stupid.
The source of the book's title
test long used for determining how brittle both stages may be, is a good example of how he approaches the subject.
Seeing it as an instrument of deception, almost always of self-deception, can be used by no one with any real intelligence because it is intended to tell administrators precisely what they want to hear.
The folk test has become an easy way for libraries to free up shelves with a clear conscience.
The double-fold test is words, other horseshit and craziness.
Good sound bites.
Incidentally, I tried the title of my review that the SAA published, Other horseshit and Craziness.
They became to me that there are a lot of nuns who are members of the Society of American Archivists.
They suggested a different title.
So much for literary creativity.
Yet the truth is that millions of books were printed on poor paper.
And the fact that Mr. Baker can find some that still seem to have life left in them is nice, but not very convincing.
We can amass thousands of counterexamples and evidence to demonstrate that repeated use of books and newspapers might be their last use.
And some of us in this room, perhaps, have experienced this.
Now, no one will acknowledge the mistakes were made.
will not acknowledge that mistakes were made with microfilm, especially in producing poor images we saw in samples.
Or even some of the arguments for preservation of the students were overstated.
But it is one thing to criticize and no problems, and quite another to denounce the intentions of what librarians and archivists are doing.
At present, there are rigid technical standards in place for microfilming and preserving paper.
And the existence of these standards may be the result of warning
from the earlier mistakes.
If he intended for his essays and books to help us to continue to learn and to make adjustments, its tone and message seem counterproductive.
Librarians and archivists can hardly expect to embrace a plot line in which they are the villains.
Librarians and archivists select, provide access, organize and catalog, preserve, promote their services, and manage increasingly complicated and diverse operations.
all in the space of the lack of resources, lack of public understanding, rapidly changing technologies, societal debates, controversies, changing constituencies, internal professional debates, and new demands for services.
The public may not fully understand what libraries and archives do, but they often expect services from them that stretch their resources.
While Mr. Baker focuses on both the single function of preservation, as if this is all libraries and archives are about, librarians and archivists have had to respond to rising expectations that everything will be made available for this organization.
Preservation and access are linked, so the focus of double fold on the maintenance of the regionals and cheap warehouse space in out-of-the-way places is somewhat replaced.
Double Fault takes one particular test and makes it the centerpiece of a grand conspiracy.
And again, I submit, the language is a language that suggests a conspiracy.
Baker really believes that the entire preservation movement, or seems to suggest that the entire preservation movement, seems to believe that the entire preservation movement in the past couple of generations has been part of an effort merely to show, say, shelf space, an argument he repeats in every available opportunity.
The newspaper microfilming has, according to NASA, a great, beautiful, and power, and meaning to the landscape of the novel.
And again, we saw the pictures demonstrating this view.
And the emergence of the Little Books program is part of an effort to divert attention away from the obvious failures in microfilms.
He makes it all sound so plausible and so bad.
He even ignores the fact that many of these librarians, archivists, are scholars in their own right.
making judicious decisions in the face of difficult circumstances, and nearly all are experts building on the hard scrabble of experience.
Mistakes may be made, but they are not being made as a result of some vast conspiracy, ignorance, or malfeasance.
The fundamental weakness of the argument may be more implicit than explicit that everything can and must be saved in a traditional state.
At times, it seems that he communicates that he simply wants one copy of everything that has already been acquired from certain research libraries, kept in its original pristine condition in these repositories.
But I am not sure that there is fundamentally much difference in the scale he is considering from that of just saving everything, both seem impossible.
How, for example, could such a vast coordination of delegating responsibility among thousands of libraries and archives, from millions and millions of books
newspapers and other materials in place.
As an archivist, this is my concern with the book and with the reviews and interviews and the publicity.
Baker wants these newspapers in the original because the size of the typical newspaper is important because microfilm projects usually do not capture all the various editions many urban dailies produce.
We need every edition of every newspaper.
Now, in the book, that's what's said.
I haven't found the reference again, but that's what's stated.
Events frustration that microfilm, at least at May Day, was filled with a link with destruction and with a defunding divergence, that's a quote, between conservation and preservation, where one involves stating originals and the other their destruction.
He wants the paper saved because he believes that we need to study the physical history
durability of early wood pulp paper.
Archivists though, however, are saying that every item is not possible.
We can't even examine all the records.
And the archivists and their allies have been developing selection schemes and strategy for years as a means to cope with such challenges.
Even if we chose to treat original newspapers, there is still the matter of financial and other resources required that makes this less an option than
that Nicholson Baker seems to be able to understand, perhaps because the book's message would have to become more complex.
Making an argument, everything should be saved is a powerful one and is easier to make than trying to wrestle about who will have responsibility for selection and what criteria will be used.
Now the one true hero in double book might look for a hero and knew there had to be one somewhere.
Seems to be the bibliographer and print scholar, he kind of stands out.
For those that all books are physical artifacts without exception, just as all books are bowls of ideas.
So save it all.
Yes, books are content and manufactured object, information, and sometimes art, propaganda, and commodity.
This certainly suggests a need for outfishing for resource of books.
But it does not necessarily apply to be saved all books, so that we can scale this up to accomplish something .
Not everything of value, some scholars far distant in the future, maybe, can be saved for posterior.
Librarians and archivists must make choices, hard as this might seem, and this is complex.
Yes, some scholarship requires original artifacts, but what about other challenges?
That the digitally born objects and record system, the other research purposes, serve by records that extend far beyond the scholarship on books, printing, and other related matters.
Government archives are saving records to ensure accountability so that we know that Bill Clinton gave the moniker a copy of a certain book written by the person sitting next to me.
Corporate records management programs are administering record-keeping systems to ensure legal and regulatory compliance.
The world, at least that for libraries and archives, may be a bit more complex than what Nicholson Baker does or appears to consider.
Archivists know that saving everything is simply impossible.
At this point, Baker's may be what has the most resonance with the public because as one reviewer stated, nothing beats the original.
Mr. Baker pleads that we leave the book alone and alone and alone and alone.
That's exactly how it's said.
And by the time you finish the book or finish listening to him, you might agree.
But consider the weakness of this.
just letting everything accumulate and leaving it there in its original form assumes that libraries and archives do not make selections to begin with baker constantly focuses on the library congress is serving as a repository for all printed copyright books that there are not accidents and catastrophes that we have such natural accumulations or that many most
Books that are attached will not be used for decades or more, or perhaps not used at all.
We cannot keep everything, and barely trying to do so weakens our ability to keep anything.
Regardless of what some might argue, not every book, pamphlet, newspaper, or document is important enough to merit perpetual care.
Do we have to keep an original copy of double books?
Do we have to keep an original copy of one of my books?
I don't think so.
And librarians and archivists, even if they were just in the business of running warehouses, could not store everything or even a substantial portion of everything published or created.
While Mr. Baker provides some simple cost estimates that deserve to be answered, the problem of his estimates is that he does not factor in all of the resources or kinds of resources that would be needed.
Specialized staff, adequate storage facilities, not just warehouses, adequate
storage facilities, reading rooms, equipment for copying, and other similar items and functions are not considered in the pages of double poli.
And these libraries are similar places than they are or ever have been in the real world.
And in addition, what some are calling history, some are calling double poli history, perhaps because it has footnotes, describes many procedures, policies, and processes that date back many years, and that have been.
corrected, updated, or replaced with better approaches.
It is just as likely that what we have experienced over the past half century, both successes and failures, have prepared us for new approaches that might not have come into play if we had not stumbled about looking for and experimenting.
While one might easily interpret from double-fold that librarians and archivists should proceed with caution, especially as future technologies might help resolve some of the challenges of preserving originals, the lesson not appreciated is the complexity of the responsibilities faced by librarians and archivists.
Nicholson Baker and double-fold needs and deserves responses that reexample scientific evidence from rural papers.
scientific evidence.
The history of microfilming and World Book Program, both what they have accomplished and the failures.
The responses of researchers and other users, especially considering the use of microfilm newspapers and the use of original papers.
The economics of preservation and libraries and archives in general.
The need for types of selection criteria for devoting extraordinary resources to preserving particular original
the need for an effectiveness of preservation and conservation education, and numerous other issues.
We need to respond carefully to the many levels of his arguments, and his arguments are complex and comprehensive.
Perhaps it would not be a bad idea to call moratorium, briefly, on the major reformatting project.
So we can discuss these issues, do some study, consider the obvious, and at the least, why not divert some of the billions of federal foundation funding
to study some of the kinds of questions that he was raised.
Or, perhaps, he can help us tap into the foundation funding sources that he needed to support his own newspaper archive.
And yes, it is ironic that the criticisms he makes about the external government funding to support the insidious microfilming and brittle book project does not direct attention to the responsibility of newspaper and book publishers for creating generations of cheap, poorly manufactured and ephemeral objects.
Why target librarians and archivists who have been stuck with these objects rather than their manufacturers, especially since the former, because of their campaigns, have managed to get better products?
Why target librarians and archivists when they are the ones trying now to work with the computer hardware and software manufacturers so that better, more durable e-books and digital record systems are available?
Study and careful analysis is what we need.
not unsubstantiated charges.
Is it exaggeration that brittle paper will literally turn books into dust?
Of course.
So what?
Baker provides a lot of anecdotal evidence, mostly from his own personal experience and observation, some of it quite propelling and intriguing.
But we need to examine in analytical, not scientific fashion, the extent of deterioration of paper.
While it appears that the proponents of reformatting books in those newspapers may have overstated their case, Baker surely has overstated his.
Preserving original newspapers across the world does seem excessive unless undertaken as a very selective exercise.
Do some researchers complain about using viper milk?
Yes.
Again, so what?
I've talked to archivists who tell me of patrons complaining about having to use original newspapers.
So I and others can also compile a substantial evidence on the other side of the argument as well.
A minor thing in this book, although no less emotional or intense, is the role of education in the crisis he is describing.
And it seems appropriate here to discuss this a little bit.
Akram used to know the fact that the book conservative, the one most likely to stage the original artifact, must go through a slow friendship, slow preservation administrator,
The one they can do is reformatting the student, quote, but an extra year to earn the right to decide or help decide what to do with a stack full of artifacts about which he or she might know almost nothing in the book.
Another point he asserts, there is a direct correlation between the correct spread of preservation administration and career as a widening pull in the whole book.
Now, most of us have operated on a different level.
regarding preservation, assuming the main problem was that there were too few preservation administrators out there in the first place.
Of course, adopting his argument that we should just leave the books in the stacks and not bother with them suggests eliminating the education that we already have in place.
I do believe we have a major educational venture for us, but not merely retraining new kinds of preservation administrators.
But in explaining to the public and policy makers the nature of library and archival preservation, we also need to be able to educate our friends to people like Mr. Baker who declare that they love libraries and archives.
Now, in the interest of time, I have another dozen pages that I was going to talk about the selection of newspapers to be preserved in the original.
I'm going to skip over that because I do believe that some of the examples that we've seen up here, that there are cases
that we do need to preserve certain original newspapers.
But in a highly selective and very careful process, a highly selective way, very careful process, and not all newspapers.
Again, the examples in double bulk are always focused on certain kinds of major newspapers.
But we know that there are thousands and thousands of dailies out there.
We also know that the U.S.
Newspaper Project, it was not just about the newspaper
but an amazing effort to gather the bibliographic information about the complexities of the newspapers that are out there, that again is not reflected.
Again, because there is a disconnect between the notion of preservation and access in the book, and I think in the arguments that we know that are quite vital.
But I'm not going to obviously use up the time.
Let me just skip to my last page of the app here, and then open it up for
Well, whatever's going to happen next.
There's no door behind that.
I'm worried.
In effect, OK, this is the conclusion.
In effect, Nicholson Baker's writings are a lament about the loss of older sensibility to original material, one generated by our emerging into an acceptance of copies by the internet or wide web that he and others worry may have dulled our senses
about the value of original objects.
His article and his book are much like the worry of Sven Birkitz about the divide of both the print book and linear reading.
However, one can believe in the continuing utility of print and the value of maintaining books and some newspapers in their original position while recognizing that the ultimate preservation demands requires mechanisms like microfilming and digitization.
projects.
There is need for both.
I love books.
I have about three or four thousand in my own library.
I don't have any newspapers.
There is no conspiracy or even tragic problems in our libraries and archives, other than the fact that they have immense challenges and limited resources.
He might think of himself calling others to join an epic quest to save America's past.
But at best, he will only give a minute to a portion, perhaps even to burn
the public's attention from the greater issues facing the preservation of the books, documents, newspapers, and other artifacts in the past.
He reminds me, unfortunately, of Sisyphus.
What all of this leads up to is the need to use the same standard for evaluating his books that he himself employs to evaluate preservation efforts of the past half century.
He critiques the film, Slow Fire to Dispassion.
It would be a better film
If what it was saying happened to be truth, not head-slapping exaggeration, then its use of crisis language would have some justification.
This applies, the same applies, of course, to determining just how exaggerated a double-fold word is.
Certainly, he thinks a crisis also exists.
I think the exaggeration comes and is a characterization of some individuals in the more conspiratorial aspects of his argument.
The truth addressed somewhere in his arguments about the massive microfilming and digitization of books that may not be as endangered as we were led to believe.
But there was an awful lot of superfluous tit-chat speculation and conspiracy theorizing to dig through, in order to find, to crawl into that truth.
Thank you.
We would like to go to the floor now to questions from a pair of two people with microphones.
Is there someone on your side?
If you guys don't mind, go back and do that.
Oh, sure.
Okay.
Anybody want to start?
between the public and libraries.
And so the question that I have for Mr. Baker is the point that libraries need to be held to a higher standard of trust.
We need to raise a level of accountability.
Or is the point that there was a level of trust that has been briefed?
And if it's the latter, could you give us examples of what you've been able to find
that were actual statements of some evidence of trust, whether it's legal contact, policy, it doesn't matter.
But what can we really point to as a measure of a statement of an obligation that we really need to look to when we critique behavior in action?
Well, I think the reason that I became indignant writing the book was because when I found, I think, the Brittle Books program,
was presented to us and presented to many librarians as a way of saving the human record.
And so what I did was go back and read the actual documents, the cost-benefit analysis on which this program was based.
And in reading them, it turns out that the number one benefit to it is face-saving.
And if you microfilm these endangered, at-risk, embrittled books as diagnosed with these
variations on the fold test that you will then allow libraries to liberate five times that.